---
layout: post
title: A Darkness In My Soul - Economics
---

My first two posts have been happy-go-lucky cheery cult of optimism stuff. The kind of stuff one would expect to find on a GitHub Pages blog. Learning about Reinforcement Learning and understanding the connection between policies mapping states to actions and rewards leaves me feeling a bit hollow. One would think that learning about the intricacies of light and atoms would remove one's sense of bewilderment, but I haven't found that to be the case. Understanding the equations which govern light and atoms don't bring you any closer to understanding what light are atoms _are_, I mean of course it does but you're no closer to understanding _why_ they exist.

Understanding how values govern actions, how policies that map states to actions are formed, can be very alienating stuff. The potential for accelerating human potential is so immense, but we're not optimizing our systems to maximize human potential. No quite the opposite. And there's very little I can do about it in the long run. I just watch the wheels turn and say what I think but no one listens to me. Not really. I'm just a nobody on a planet full of nobodies.

So I oppose capitalism like any sane person would do in 2020 because the robber barons have regained complete control. I'm not a super gung-ho social media branded communist, well not anymore (I was), but no I really don't believe in New Deal style socialism. That's what got us here. I don't think the Russians had it completely backwards with regards to their feelings on capitalism. I don't. That doesn't mean that I'm a fucking terrorist, however much I might be pidgeonholed into that role by the media.

I signed up for a Netflix trial because Amazon Prime Video was not that great. I've discovered that Netflix is also not that great, but the one thing I've seen is that the narratives from pretty much every single movie that's available to stream for free online right now is heavily cop-friendly, "better" worshipping bootlicking drivel. I mock the books I read on Kindle but holy jeez they're better than this garbage. This stuff is bad. And the thing is, it's not that I'm just used to the media, file/shows/music/whatever, from the time I was growing up or in my twenties or whatever and I can't get down with the new media. It's that the media hasn't changed. It's still the same cringy garbage. Still not exciting. Still not funny.

So I don't know. I'd love to be one of those people who has good taste in books and film and stuff but I just can't say I really do have great taste. I mean of course I think I do but it's not exactly what one would think. See right now I'm thinking about decolonization and the social construct of whiteness and then my thoughts go to how whenever you base your society off of both cruelty **AND** purity culture like whiteness has then you're just poisoning your cultural icons for future generations. America hasn't yet begun to come to terms with the horrific realities of both slavery and native genocide. What we are seeing now with the *enormous* impact Black Lives Matter and Obama has had on our generation is just a drop in the bucket to what is in store for the US of A.

No tech shit today. Tech is a techie tech tech tech. Fuck. Need a breather. I'm about tech-ed out. I should make some art or do some math or something. I need more experience with abstract algebra. I think I'll teach it to myself this weekend after I get back from whatever outing I decide to make in the coronapocalypse wasteland of Western Oregon, April 2020.

I love math because I can learn it and help with my tech skill stuff (usually), but it's really just language and it activates those artistic centers of my brain. Don't get me wrong I'm using the artistic centers of my brain when I'm working, but yeah I really love learning some new math.

I've been having cabin fever bad. Waking up and needing to get out of my tin can. I really need to start working out more. Every hour at the top of the hour, I'm doing squats or lunges or standing bicycle crunches or doing a plank or something. I've gotten into a bad habit of sitting in one place for way too long during this isolation and that is not going to work. I'm taking a walk. Stretching. Doing some exercises. Taking a minute to just be not in front of a computer screen. Every hour tomorrow/today (my sleeping schedule is really messed up right now).

Anyway this darkness in my soul is due to economic reasons. Mainly that we live under the collective gambling addiction known of as capitalism and it is depressing, especially now with what I know about reinforcement learning. The reward function $$J = aX +bY$$ of multi-objective optimization we want to optimize where X is good, wholesome things that are beneficial and Y are bad, greedy, mobbed up gambling addiction seedy things leads me to believe that $$ b >> a$$, whereas our society swears it runs on the principal that $$a >> b$$. :thinking:
