---
layout: post
title: Rabbit rabbit
---

So the last post was just my ramblings about `Longformer` and how it works. Part of me wishes the blog had some level of exposure as I do want to be appreciated and do good work, but another equally strong part feels good about having my blog just be a place where I can put my thoughts without the drama that goes along with posting on twitter dot com.

Saw a person saying they're taking a sabatical from organizing to write a book and I'm honestly feeling that way right now. Not that I've written many books and have much hope that if I quit doing all the zoom calls for DSA and now CPUSA that I'll all of a sudden just start writing.

Missed a call on the defund the military statement this afternoon. I woke up super freaking early and couldn't go back to sleep and I had no caffeine so I crashed without eating early in the afternoon after my work meetings were done for the day. Really wished that I hadn't, but at the same time I'm also just kind of done with all the meetings and zoom calls and planning.

It's really been great and I feel like I've definitely had an impact in a few important ways.

Started reading _The Origins of Consciousness in the Breakdown of the Bicameral Mind_ by Julian Jaynes today. It came highly suggested and the way they dispense with **learning-as-consciousness** in short order makes me wish that deep learning and the study of artificial intelligence in general had a little more appreciation for psychology. But of course I feel that way, I'm a Tenenbaumist. The purpose of the mind is to model.

So yeah I'm not planning on throwing a bunch of math in here, and I felt like tweeting something earlier and I was just like "Know what? Write it down in long form in a blog, then post the blog to twitter if you feel starved for attention."

Because I don't really feel starved for attention and people thinking that I am is particularly not good for me right now. I won't go into it further, but suffice to say that social media is the devil and my life would definitely be better off if I had never touched the stuff. So I'm less than enthusiastic about social media.

I did get the verification I restarted my twitter account for and I have an appointment, so I could I think it is just a matter of time before I delete myself from the glaring scrolling distraction. Writing here is good for me. I love writing. I love keeping a record of my thoughts, and I'm not mining for likes on a blog the way it tends to be on social media. They're not worth anything. All they're good for is getting a big head and acting like a jackass.  

Thing is, most of what I do in these committees I'm talking about wanting to take a break from is write. Longer form writing is what I need to be doing and this has forced me to engage that part of my brain.

Next up after getting better at putting together long streams of semi-coherent, casually connected thoughts is to get better at editing them down, because that's where the real magic happens is in editing.

Meeting at work today went well. I'm about in a position where I either need to ask for more money since they've been paying me to get better at doing tasks where the pay is very lucrative or I need to find someone else who will pay me $100 an hour for the work I do. I'm more than worth it. My workplace is getting someone of my caliber as a steal. Sounds like I'm full of myself? Sounds like I haven't published any research papers and need to slow my role? Not every ML systems that works well and is novel gets a full write up. The ones that do are often a consequence of the privilege and status of the authors rather than the quality of their work. Hate to break it to everyone lapping up the idea that the elite are miles above and beyond everyone else in capabilities. They're not.

I still need to dig into the `trainer.train()` method of hugging face transformers to have a better idea of how exactly they're doing it. I mean I've built my own training loops before, so I know what it's doing under the hood, but it's still a good idea to see what makes them think they're method of training is so special. I also need to think about how I'm going to train models with gpu-enabled AKS clusters, because just using them for inference isn't really that impressive. Speaking of I really need to spend more time figuring out how to get ONNX working for the Longformer Encoder-Decoder model. Also in that same vein I need to work on initializing the long short transformer attention mechanism with weights from BART large or something the same way AllenAI did for their longformer model. I really don't think they pre-trained on a massive MLM dataset. I think they used the pre-trained weights did some magic with the position embedding matrices. Phil Wang has put together an example of long short transformer that uses rotatary positional encoding, so I need to figure out how to get his code to work using the pre-trained weights of BART large and we can fine tune it on arxiv or pubmed before refining it on our much smaller proprietary set that makes the summarization look the way we want it to.

That's all for work too. It's research. I'm getting NIH money to do science, which is why I haven't found a higher paying job yet. I'm not finished getting better at NLP. Lot of my interests in AI are on the NLP side. Open ended conversation question answering is something I'm really interested in, especially figuring out ways to integrate it with neural program synthesis, automated theorem proving, and embodied AI/aka robotics. So I don't have a robot right now. The videos I see from elephant robotics of their $7000 manipulator aren't really that impressive. The motion is jerky, which is really an indictment of the controls more than the hardware, but still. It seems like a toy. I want to know where Miso is getting their better-than-a-UR5 robots for $5-8k dammit. It's been driving me bananas that I still don't know who to order one from. That's what I need. A full sized industrial manipulator on the same level as a UR-5. Then I can experiment with getting it to bake bread and make burgers and french fries and harvest plants and do all sorts of useful work that can be used to turn a profit.

So I feel like I really should back off of all the organizing because the things I want to do outside of writing statements condemning this and condemning that are ultimately way more important to the liberation of the human race in the long run. Not that sharing my ideas and condemning the condemnable are unworthy pursuits, I just have a feeling my talents are best used elsewhere. All those zoom calls I've sat in, imagine if I had been writing codea and putting together simulations for a automated vertical greenhouse instead?