---
layout: post
title: I'm back
---

So I guess I'm going to need to figure out how to push to github without a password. Also, **I'm BACK!**

I haven't been writing github pages textbooks in my spare time. :cry: Guess I need to change that, huh?

So this doesn't have to follow any specific format. I'm not trying to move product or anything. I can just ramble about whatever I want.

Really want to experiment with semantical grounding for NLP through visual question answering and robotics simulations. I know a few people who are working on it and follow their research. Sometimes it feels like I've done a graduate fellowship with some of these people after reading so much of their research and building upon it even if they don't even know my name.

I guess that's what this blog can help me with. I can stop just posting on twitter all my ideas and can stop endlessly scrolling and actually do some work and put it up here.

Just like I [did for Udacity](https://github.com/odellus/tennis/blob/master/Report.md), but something on my own. Something that tries to semantically ground robotics simulations. And by robotics simulations, I just mean simulations in general. Dynamics scenes, whether they're images or point clouds. Oh I need to look into that [lego construction paper](https://krlennon.github.io/image2lego/). Maybe I should start an anonymous, apolitical twitter just for research? There's a lot of good stuff being shared on there.

Ehhh I don't know. Maybe later after I build up some momentum not endlesslys scrolling. I'm done with that crap. Can't I just add [@ak92501](https://twitter.com/ak92501) to an RSS feed. Do they really have to socialize my news feed? I don't think I like it.