---
layout: post
title: Random Thoughts
---

There are too many things to write about. One thing I keep wanting to write about is how I need to develop better long form writing skills, especially technical writing. I don't write up what I've done enough. I also don't do enough outside of work. Having two jobs has been great financially, but I don't have the spare time to work on other things like I used to. The thing I work on in my spare time is something I get paid for actually. Which is pretty nice, but I have a very wide range of interests outside of NLP, even with how cool factually consistent summarization is and the far reaching consequences of being able to solve this problem. I mean that's what gets these academics to do all this cool stuff, is the act of writing it all up. I need to get on that bandwagon. I bought a robot arm to help me with my writing hahahahaha. No I think this is a good way to look at it.

Now I can try to duplicate say-can or VIMA or some other new transformer-based method of robot control and document my findings by comparing it to other methods. I guess I should buy like a random assortment of stuff along with a couple of bins to go along with an RGB-D camera or two for pick and place in addition to working on special EOATs for planting, tending, and harvesting a vertical planting tower. I'm going to need a shop. This is why I always act like I need land before anything else. Because I need tools and a shop. EOATs and vertical planting towers means you're a hardware guy without big bags of money. Well I didn't used to have big bags of money. Sort of do now. Could make way more too tbh. But I'm willing to stick with things as they currently are for the time being because I've got the robot arm I've always wanted.

Haven't taken it out though because I want THE FUCK out of Las Vegas. God I hate it here. What a miserable fucking place to be. Orange seems idyllic compared to this place. There's water and rain. Yeah there are mosquitos. Oh well. There's LIFE. This place is so damn depressing and awful. Scorched earth for REAL. Nothing heals. Nothing grows. I have got to get the FUCK out of Las Vegas, Nevada. Makes me want to retreat back to Texas honestly. California is crazy expensive. I make good money, but I'm not making it that good. Honestly if they do end up rescheduling there's a good chance I might move back.

I've thought about moving to Oklahoma more than once because it's cheaper than the west coast and they've got medical. I suck at making friends with these west coast people. I don't know why. I guess I sort of went crazy in 2008 and I've been pretty aloof and distant from humanity myself in a place known for its ability to freeze people out of social scenes. I mean why didn't I try to reach out and make friends in Silicon Valley? Are you fucking kidding me? Gross. So I'm in this really weird position where I'm an automator, and expert in AI/ML, and I am a fucking communist. Oops. Fuck my life, right? I don't want to schmooze with rich people. Rich people fucking terrify me. But like in my line of work, I'm going to have to deal with rich people. The CEO of one of the jobs where I work now is obscenely wealthy, and I've got to treat this guy like he's normal and not a freakish lottery winner who gets to call the shots by dint of pure happenstance. I make it okay and I don't really put on too much of a mask, I just act like I'm a democrat who has read Marx because that's what I am, and I make it. It's no big deal. He's the boss. I work for a living. I'm not really trying to reproduce that dynamic on my own though.

Yes I do hope to someday exit the labor market, but I don't really want employees. I might bring in people and make it a co-op, but I don't do employee-employer dynamics. Nope to infinity. You'd think I would be able to find people who could bring in not only valuable resources like skills and experience but also funding with such an idea, but there are a lot of challenges to breaking from the traditional funding patterns. One of them being that everyone on the left is so cynical and paranoid they're useless as a crowdfunding source unless you're trying to sell them depressing podcast content. Even then the market is still flooded (see: cynical and paranoid).

So maybe there's some angel investor out there who might like the idea. To make it really pop off, I need to get this robot arm tending to some buds.

So maybe I need a plan. Planning is intelligence after all.

1. ~~Get good at robotics and buy a robot arm.~~
2. Set up a small hydro system with one or two planting sites.
3. Get the robot arm to tend to the mini-tower as a proof-of-concept.
4. Put the robot arm on a rail for scaling on z-axis and for xy-movement like a 3D printer. 