---
layout: post
title: Happy New Year!
---

I guess I should do the 100 days of code challenge and write some code every day for 100 days. I've got six minutes to come up with something for today lol. Just kidding I'm going to do something tomorrow. Something focused on Drake and robotic manipulation methinks. The thing I really need to focus on though instead of coding is exercise. Good time to start a 30 day diet and exercise program. I don't eat enough vegetables and while I enjoy going for a walk or riding my bike, I don't do either frequently enough or for a long enough duration. I've been putting in 20 minutes a day on my exercise bike over the better part of week now after letting that slip away from me. Really need to crank up the duration and the intensity of my workouts in 2022 in addition to cutting back on unhealthy foods.

New workout program:
- Hit the weights. Come up with a set of exercises to do from the poster and write what you do down. Hell blog about it. Fuck it. Nobody is reading this thing. Don't hesitate to swap out the weights and take some plates off so you can do more of the workouts on the wall.
- Rowing. I was doing 10 minutes a day for a while there but I fell off. Keep that up. Don't forget how much I enjoy rowing. Incorporate that into the workouts that need to be taking place in the garage daily.
- Calisthenics. I've got an app that has a 30 day workout program on it that I need to use. I've got a pad in the garage just for using it, but I haven't gotten in the habit of doing it. That's got to change.
- Bicycling. I've got a real bicycle to ride now and I need to take it out for longer rides. Riding at home while watching movies is great and I need to do that a lot more, but there's nothing like actually getting out there are riding. It's fun.
- Jumping rope. I love jumping rope. It's the other reason I got the exercise pad. So do 500 skips a day in between using the exercise app, rowing, lifting weights, and cycling.
- Get a membership at EoS and start swimming if things ever open back up. I'd really love to be a lot less overweight for when I start hitting the pool on the daily, but whatever. I love swimming. It's the best workout.
- Hot baths. Act like we have a hot tub until the day when we actually do end up having our own hot tub / sauna. Just took an incredibly hot, long bath and it feels like it does the same thing as sitting in a sauna.
- Running. I actually went for a jog today. It was only about a mile long, but I jogged the whole time. Felt great. I need to do that all the time.


x86_64-linux-gnu-gcc -pthread -Wno-unused-result -Wsign-compare -DNDEBUG -g -fwrapv -O2 -Wall -g -fstack-protector-strong -Wformat -Werror=format-security -g -fwrapv -O2 -g -fstack-protector-strong -Wformat -Werror=format-security -Wdate-time -D_FORTIFY_SOURCE=2 -fPIC -I.local/lib/python3.8/site-packages/mujoco_py -I/home/thomas/.local/lib/python3.8/site-packages/mujoco_py -I/home/thomas/downloads/mujoco-2.1.1/include -I/home/thomas/.local/lib/python3.8/site-packages/numpy/core/include -I/home/thomas/.local/lib/python3.8/site-packages/mujoco_py/vendor/egl -I/usr/include/python3.8 -c /home/thomas/.local/lib/python3.8/site-packages/mujoco_py/cymj.c -o /home/thomas/.local/lib/python3.8/site-packages/mujoco_py/generated/_pyxbld_2.1.2.14_38_linuxgpuextensionbuilder/temp.linux-x86_64-3.8/home/thomas/.local/lib/python3.8/site-packages/mujoco_py/cymj.o -fopenmp -w
x86_64-linux-gnu-gcc -pthread -Wno-unused-result -Wsign-compare -DNDEBUG -g -fwrapv -O2 -Wall -g -fstack-protector-strong -Wformat -Werror=format-security -g -fwrapv -O2 -g -fstack-protector-strong -Wformat -Werror=format-security -Wdate-time -D_FORTIFY_SOURCE=2 -fPIC -I.local/lib/python3.8/site-packages/mujoco_py -I/home/thomas/.local/lib/python3.8/site-packages/mujoco_py -I/home/thomas/downloads/mujoco-2.1.1/include -I/home/thomas/.local/lib/python3.8/site-packages/numpy/core/include -I/home/thomas/.local/lib/python3.8/site-packages/mujoco_py/vendor/egl -I/usr/include/python3.8 -c /home/thomas/.local/lib/python3.8/site-packages/mujoco_py/gl/eglshim.c -o /home/thomas/.local/lib/python3.8/site-packages/mujoco_py/generated/_pyxbld_2.1.2.14_38_linuxgpuextensionbuilder/temp.linux-x86_64-3.8/home/thomas/.local/lib/python3.8/site-packages/mujoco_py/gl/eglshim.o -fopenmp -w
x86_64-linux-gnu-gcc -pthread -shared -Wl,-O1 -Wl,-Bsymbolic-functions -Wl,-Bsymbolic-functions -Wl,-z,relro -g -fwrapv -O2 -Wl,-Bsymbolic-functions -Wl,-z,relro -g -fwrapv -O2 -g -fstack-protector-strong -Wformat -Werror=format-security -Wdate-time -D_FORTIFY_SOURCE=2 /home/thomas/.local/lib/python3.8/site-packages/mujoco_py/generated/_pyxbld_2.1.2.14_38_linuxgpuextensionbuilder/temp.linux-x86_64-3.8/home/thomas/.local/lib/python3.8/site-packages/mujoco_py/cymj.o /home/thomas/.local/lib/python3.8/site-packages/mujoco_py/generated/_pyxbld_2.1.2.14_38_linuxgpuextensionbuilder/temp.linux-x86_64-3.8/home/thomas/.local/lib/python3.8/site-packages/mujoco_py/gl/eglshim.o -L/home/thomas/downloads/mujoco-2.1.1/bin -L/home/thomas/downloads/mujoco-2.1.1/lib -Wl,--enable-new-dtags,-R/home/thomas/downloads/mujoco-2.1.1/bin -lmujoco -lglewegl -o /home/thomas/.local/lib/python3.8/site-packages/mujoco_py/generated/_pyxbld_2.1.2.14_38_linuxgpuextensionbuilder/lib.linux-x86_64-3.8/mujoco_py/cymj.cpython-38-x86_64-linux-gnu.so -fopenmp
