---
layout: post
title: Chana Dal
---

Chana Dal is a popular North Indian dish made with split chickpeas, onions, tomatoes and spices. It's often served as a side dish but for me it's usually the main attraction. If I pair it with anything it's likely to be with an air fryer bindi ki sabzi. Here's a simple recipe to make delicious Chana Dal at home with ingredients that aren't impossible to find though I personally recommend buying the big jars of spices from Rana on Amazon.

## Ingredients
### Masala
- 1 large onion finely chopped
- 3-4 roma tomatoes chopped
- few spoons cumin(jeera) seeds
- heaping spoon garam masala powder
- heaping spoon coriander powder
- heaping spoon cumin powder
- salt/pepper to taste
- a bunch of oil
- a lot of cilantro

### Chana
- 1 cup split chickpeas (chana dal)
- 3.5 cups water
- Chipotle Better than Bouillon

## Tadka
- more cumin seeds, mustards seeds, whatever you want bro
- chilli powder to taste
- big ass spoon of garlic
- a bunch of oil


## Instructions
1. Add 1 cup of washed chana dal to the pressure cooker. Microwave 2 cups of water in your pyrex measuring glass for like 3-4 minutes and add in a spoonful of chipotle better than bouillon. Mix thoroughly and add to pressure cooker along with another 1.5 cups of water. Set to pressure cook on high for 25 minutes.
2. Heat oil over high heat in a pan and add cumin seeds. Once they start crackling, add chopped onions and sauté until they turn golden brown. 
3. Add the chopped tomatoes, spices, and salt and cook over medium heat until they're soft and mushy/the oil separates, (basically making meatless chili without a package and from fresh tomatoes).
4. Add chana from pressure cooker. I don't mash them or anything. I just dump it in.
5. Separate leaves from stems of cilantro and finely chop. Add after mixing in chana to masala.
6. Heat oil over high heat in a pan, add cumin seeds, mustard seeds, and whatever else you want for tadka. Once they start crackling, add minced garlic and sauté until it's golden brown. Add chilli powder to taste and mix well. Throw in the temper/tadka into your chana masala and mix well.

## Enjoy
Enjoy your simple chana dal. I made a trip down to a desi grocery store in Gainesville this year when I was having a paratha crisis and I highly recommend eating this with some delicious paratha, naan, or bhatura you can find at your local indian grocery store. I always serve with a side of chopped carrots and onions, though some fried serrano peppers is also a nice touch.

## Bhindi ki sabzi (bonus recipe)
Add another tomato and like half an onion when making the masala. Set apart like 1/4 of the mixture for the bhindi (okra). Also cut up more cilantro than you would otherwise

1. Cut up fresh okra into inch long piece (I have not tried with frozen lmk if it's any good), wash, and dry 
2. Drizzle in oil and salt with Tony's before throwing in the air fryer on like 390 for hell I don't remember how long but it was a grip. Check on those mfers. Pull them out when they're crispy af (I like my bhindi very well done).
3. In another pan mix the masala mixture in with these shits until they're good and coated. You could probably even do it in a mixing bowl. The okra don't need to be cooked just coated.
4. Throw a bunch of chopped cilantro on top of them and eat them with your chana dal